# Messages

The messages mechanism is an internal logical layer of the architecture [S\#](StockSharpAbout.md), ensuring interaction of various platform elements by the standard protocol. 

The messages mechanism includes three key elements: it is the [Message](../api/StockSharp.Messages.Message.html) message itself, message adapter [MessageAdapter](../api/StockSharp.Messages.MessageAdapter.html) and transport channel [IMessageChannel](../api/StockSharp.Messages.IMessageChannel.html). 

- **Messages** acts as information transmitting agent. Messages feature their own type [MessageTypes](../api/StockSharp.Messages.MessageTypes.html). A certain class corresponds to each type of message. In turn, all classes of messages inherit from the abstract class [Message](../api/StockSharp.Messages.Message.html), which provides descendants with such properties, as message type [Type](../api/StockSharp.Messages.Message.Type.html) and [LocalTime](../api/StockSharp.Messages.Message.LocalTime.html) \- local time when the message was created\/received. 

  The messages can be *outgoing* and *incoming*. 
  - The *outgoing* messages \- the messages, sent to the external system. Usually those are the commands, generated by the software, for example, the message [ConnectMessage](../api/StockSharp.Messages.ConnectMessage.html) \- the command, requesting connection with server. 
  - The *incoming* messages \- the messages, coming from the external system. Those are the messages, transmitting information on market data, transactions, portfolio, connection events etc. For example, the [QuoteChangeMessage](../api/StockSharp.Messages.QuoteChangeMessage.html) message \- transmits information on change of the *order book*. 
- **Message adapter** plays role of an *intermediary* between the trading system and the software. Each type of connector has its own adapter class (\-es), inherited from the abstract class [MessageAdapter](../api/StockSharp.Messages.MessageAdapter.html). 

  The adapter performs two main functions: 
  1. Converts outgoing messages into commands of the specific trading system.
  2. Converts information from the trading system (connection, market data, transactions etc.) in to incoming messages.
- **Transport channel** \- ensures synchronization of incoming and outgoing messages. 

## Recommended content

[Description](Messages_description.md)

[Adapters](Messages_adapters.md)

[Storage](Messages_storage.md)

[Networking](Messages_networking.md)
